---
layout: post
title: November 2, Cats and Dogs
tagline: Blog from 11/2/18
tags: post
excerpt: " "
permalink: /blog5.html
---

## Cats and Dogs

Elyse Graham’s article “The Great LOLCat Massacre” explores the different treatment given to dogs and cats in popular culture. A point brought up is that there exists a website called “Does The Dog Die” where you can check to see if a dog will die in a movie, and Graham states that “no equivalent website exists for cats.” This is not true; however, a google search of “does the cat die” pulls results only for “Does The Dog Die.” A little more nuance to the discussion; “Does The Dog Die” is not, apparently, just a website where you can be forewarned of a dog’s death. “Does The Dog Die” is a website that tracks the occurrence of over 50 different triggers in movies, books, television shows, and video games, one of which is cats dying. While the most tracked is the death of dogs, it seems that the website relies heavily on user contribution, which would seem to indicate that those who frequent the website, people who obviously spend time on the internet, are more concerned with the deaths of dogs, which does actually align with Graham’s points about dogs being more beloved than cats. Where does this cultural idea come from? Why, in popular culture and media, is a cat’s death never regretted by the audience, but a dog’s is? What other associations are often made in conjunction with the cat vs dog binary? Perhaps, the idea that cats are feminine, whereas dogs are masculine? In movies and popular shows, oftentimes, a feminine character’s death is seen as unfortunate, but necessary and forgettable. A clear example of this is Game of Thrones (since this post does discuss triggers and warnings, it seems important to note that the rest of this paragraph will have spoilers for the third season of Game of Thrones). Both Stark parents die; Catelyn Stark dies long after her husband Ned, and as such, the audience is given more time to bond with and grow attached to Catelyn. Yet, on forums discussing the fates of all the Stark family members, Ned is mourned significantly more than Catelyn. His death is often seen as regrettable and sad, while hers is seen as one that needed to happen for the progression of the plot, though Ned’s death was far more crucial to the overall plot of the series than Catelyn’s; his death fuels the hatred that Arya feels, and thus, her entire character arc. Catelyn’s merely adds to this already present rage. 
    It’s true that all character deaths in popular culture are sad, but men’s are mourned more than women’s, much the way the death of a dog in a movie is mourned far more than that of a cat.
