---
layout: post
title: November 30, Video Games and Virtual Visual Novels
tagline: Blog from 11/30/18
tags: post
excerpt: " "
permalink: /blog8.html
---
## Video Games and Virtual Visual Novels

Video games are an ubiquitious part of our culture these days. Of course, everyone has a different level of interest and investment, but even my grandmother has played a videogame on her iPhone. Some games, such as any first person shooter, are universally agreed upon to be videogames. Others are more controversial; what exactly is the difference between an interactive digital story and a videogame? Personally, I think any level of interaction makes it a game; most people would agree that Bioshock is a game, but many of those same people might argue that Gone Home, a game with similar mechanics and a team that worked on Bioshock, is not a game. What exactly is it that makes Gone Home less of a game? One could argue that it is the lack of shooting, but that would make something like Super Smash Brothers to be considered not a game; one could say the lack of violence, but that would imply things like Tetris aren’t video games either. The most important thing to consider in this discussion is the predominant voices in gaming communities: men. This isn’t to say that men are the only ones who play video games, or even that men play video games more than other genders, but rather that men have the loudest voices in video game communities. I have to wonder if Gone Home is considered to be less of a game because it stars a non-sexualized female character. It is not terribly different from the Stanley Parable in game play, though I’ve never heard anyone call into question the gaminess of the Stanley Parable; the Lara Croft games, though starring a female character, star an undeniably sexualized female character. Games seem to lose “game credit” if the main character cannot be a man. If the player is given the option to play as a man or woman, people are more accepting of it as a game. If the player is given no option and merely plays as a man, people are more accepting of it as a game. But if the player is not indisputably a man, people will call into question the credibility of a game, as seen with games such as Undertale or Night in the Woods; both are games with strong storylines, and high levels of interaction, but both are games that have their “game” status called into question. Neither game stars a man; Undertale’s main character has no specified gender, while Night in the Woods’s main character is a tomboyish girl. Why is it that certain men in the gaming community are so hellbent on excluding women from the community, to the point of ostracizing non-sexualized games that aren’t made with men in mind?
