---
layout: posr
title: September 21- Reading and Gatekeeping
tagline: Blog from 9/21/18
tags: post
excerpt: " "
permalink: /blog1.html
---

## Reading and Gatekeeping

Craig Mod says in his article “Future Reading” that “The pile of unread books we have on our bedside tables is often referred to as a graveyard of good intentions. The list of unread books on our Kindles is more of a black hole of fleeting intentions.” Though I’ve been steadfast in my opinion of physical books being preferable to digital and e- books since I was old enough to have an opinion (no matter how ill-informed), I think it’s hardly fair to insinuate that the books left unread on a kindle are more tragic than those left unread on a shelf; in fact, I would argue that Mr. Mod may have his comparisons flipped. A kindle full of digitally downloaded books that sit forever unread may be heartbreaking, yes, but those books at least cannot be serving another purpose, and at worst are a symptom of a person who is easily distracted and well intentioned. A pile of unread books on a shelf sit gathering dust for years, physical books that could be donated to a person who would read them voraciously if they only could afford books, but instead they might sit for years, serving as little more than a coffee table decoration. While Mr. Mod is certainly entitled to his seemingly neutral opinion on the physical vs digital book debate, the way he talks about digital books does not align with the conclusion he comes to at the end of his article; the “two particular containers that have moved [him]” are revealed to be City Secrets, which he discusses in loving detail, and the kindle, which he compliments and criticizes in the same breath. He calls himself a “consumer of digital books,” and then differentiates the side of himself that is a “reader,” leaving the implication that digital books are consumed, as opposed to being read. Why would digital books be “consumed” more than physical books, when a physical book itself is consumption, of natural resources, and can be owned only by one person, as opposed to a digital book that can be owned by millions of people? Is it because reading digitally is viewed by some as reading for the sake of reading as opposed to reading for the love of reading? How and why did that feeling come to be, that true lovers of books must read physical books and that digital books are for the casual fans? Though digital books and technology make books and literature more accessible than ever, the gatekeeping of literature hints at the elitism.
