---
layout: post
title: November 9, Human or Bot?
tagline: Blog from 11/9/18
tags: post
excerpt: " "
permalink: /blog6.html
---

## Human or Bot?

    Ever since its debut on Netflix, I’ve had friends telling me that I absolutely needed to watch Black Mirror. In true procrastinator fashion, I always said I would eventually, but eventually turned out to be November of 2018, with the episode “Be Right Back. “ Boy, was it a trip. Now, yes, of course it’s tragic that Martha’s husband passed away, and even more so because of her being pregnant with his child. But it’s painted as though it’s a unique situation, and that perhaps Martha turning to the bizarre technology she does might be a rational decision. I would venture a guess that everybody knows at least one person who was raised by a single mother without ever having met their father, be it due to death or other reasons. But the progression of Martha’s obsession with regaining what she has lost is far more disturbing than any other aspect of this episode, including the fact that he arrives in a cooler like a meal ready to eat or novelty candy-- just add water. But in truth, it does raise the question: at what point does something become more human than machine? Most people, at some point in their lives, are either kept alive (even if only briefly), or know someone who has been kept alive, by a machine. Many people have some kind of metal in their body following a surgery. And, though bizarre and somewhat artificial, the Ash-bot did seem to have some kind of emotions and feelings. One could very easily argue that Ash-bot may actually have had more emotions than someone, who, for example, has sociopathy. In this event, what, then, becomes the dividing line between human and robot? It would be absurd to say that someone with sociopathy, or indeed, someone who is a really dull person, is less human than a robot, but why? 
    
