---
layout: post
title: October 12, The Humanities VS STEM
tagline: Blog from 10/12/18
tags: post
excerpt: " "
permalink: /blog3.html
---

## The Humanities VS STEM

Computational poetry. In my opinion, it’s one of the most underrated types of poetry in today’s world, and not for lack of quality, but rather for lack of ability and accessibility. There is, of course, the classic, stereotypical attitude of some people gifted in the use of computers, that English literature and its use are unimportant to and perhaps below them, to the chagrin of many an English student. However, especially in recent years, there seems to be a similar sort of attitude among many writers, that they have no use for computers beyond word processing programs, publishers, and promotions, all of which are incredibly important, but ignore the greater scope of what computers can be used to create. Nick Montfort’s work “Modern Proverbs” is especially similar to his “House of Dust,” which I had the opportunity to work with last spring, during a computational poetry workshop hosted by Northeastern’s English Department. Up until that point, I had absolutely no idea what “computational poetry” meant, despite being a self-declared “poet.” It simply wasn’t something I had ever come across, despite many in-class poetry units and an entire poetry class. Why is computational poetry not considered something worth being taught in high school english classes? Why is there such a divide between the kids who choose STEM and the kids who choose humanities, and why is it so hard for a student to take both? Just this year, my sister, a junior in high school, made the decision to drop a foreign language in order to take a class in computer science. But why should she have to choose between learning a language that will allow her to communicate with a more diverse community and learning a skill that is becoming more and more invaluable as the world progresses technologically? Why is it that, to so many, poetry is considered an old fashioned art, a thing of the past? Why is it so difficult for us as a whole to accept the merging of poetry with computer skills, and why aren’t we making sure that everyone goes into the world with a basic understanding of how to code *and* write?
