---
layout: post
title: November 16, Bot Consent and Bought Consent
tagline: Blog from 11/16/18
tags: post
excerpt: " "
permalink: /blog7.html
---

## Bot Consent and Bought Consent

Ted Chiang’s “The Lifecycle of Software Objects” raises the interesting question of consent in regards to robots. Though published in 2010, the idea grows with importance as the ideas of robots created with the purpose of sexual gratification becomes more and more real, with a wide array of options available for purchase online. Some people think these “sexbots” could be a wonderful alternative, especially given the growing online community of men who believe themselves to be entitled to sex, and believe that sexual assault is an appropriate reaction to not getting consensual sex. The hope, then, would be that if these men are given access to sexbots, then they will be incentivized to leave actual, human women alone. However, another group of people have the concerns that these robots would simply normalize the idea of consent not being needed, thus further encouraging the idea that it is ok to forcibly take sex when it is not being willingly given. Neither of these arguments think about the morality in regards to the actual robot itself, reinforcing the cultural idea that robots are lesser than humans, which may be true as of now, but with constant revolutions in technology, robots are becoming more and more sentient. Chiang’s digients represent the future of AI technology, and his imagination becomes more and more a reality with every day that goes by. His digients do truly seem to be sentient, but less able to think for themselves, perhaps in a way that parallels the way some members of society are really unable to care for themselves, and unable to consent due to lack of awareness, like children. As a society, we consider those who prey upon children to be the most depraved, because children are frequently inherently so trusting, and because they don’t always understand what’s going on. Besides a difference in hardware, what makes the digients so different from children?
