---
layout: post
title:  "The Truth of Progress, The Truth of People"
date:   2018-09-28
excerpt: " "
project: true
tag:
posts
permalink: /blog2.html
comments: true
---

## The Truth of Progress, The Truth of People

Ted Chiang’s “The Truth of Fact, the Truth of Feeling” explores the parallels between writing and the sci-fi tech called Remem, which searches all of a person’s memories in an instant. The biggest differences between the two are, of course, firstly that writing is real and obviously commonly practiced, secondly that writing is shown to cause more problems and division, while the Remem technology, though morally dubious at times, does bring the narrator closer to his daughter, Nicole, at the end of the story. This story raises the question: at what point should technology stop, if ever? There was a time when writing was viewed as the new and frightening technology, and now it is seen as a requirement for educated people in western society. Currently, people are viewing texting and video calls as new and frightening, with many claiming that they cut people off from one another, but as someone living 1000 miles away from my family, I can’t imagine life without them. As we as a society advance technologically, it is increasingly likely that technology like Chiang’s Remem will become not only real, but commonplace, and we all have the option to fear it or embrace it. That is not to say that technology is inherently good, because obviously technology can be used for terrible things; the younger generation is worried constantly about social media etiquette, about posting the right thing and responding the right way to posts. But, as a character in Chiang’s story points out, “     If your marriage is solid, Remem isn’t going to hurt it. But if you’re the type of person who’s constantly trying to prove that you’re right and your spouse is wrong, then your marriage is going to be in trouble whether you use Remem or not.” Though obviously not all people are married, the sentiment is true: technology does not change a person, it merely allows an outlet for a trait that may have otherwise remained hidden for years.
