---
layout: post
title: October 26, Apps and Infomercials
tagline: Blog from 10/26/18
tags: post
excerpt: " "
permalink: /blog4.html
---

## Apps and Infomercials

Melissa Gregg’s article “The Productivity Obsession” points out the way that we as a society have begun to prioritize productivity above all else, and points out the way certain apps, such as “Self Control” and “Omnifocus,” have been created in order to help people “facilitate the pleasure of time management, which is ultimately the pleasure of control.” These apps are frequently brushed off as superfluous and unnecessary, and while they may be unnecessary for many people, writing them off as silly ignores an importance nuance: not all products are created for abled people, the best examples of which are infomercials. Everybody has enjoyed a laugh at the misfortune or rolled their eyes at the laziness of people in infomercials, such as one that advertises a product that allows a person to put on their socks without bending over. To most people, it’s an entirely unnecessary product. To people who are physically unable to bend down to put on their own socks, it’s a game changer that allows them to be more independent, rather than to continue relying on someone else to help them put on socks. The infomercial, of course, displays happy, smiling, able-bodied people using the product as a novelty, with perhaps a grandparent using it, before standing up easily. Why doesn’t the infomercial just show the product being used by its intended demographic? For a product to sell, it has to marketed to the vast majority of people, not just its intended audience, or else it runs the risk of not selling enough to have reasonable prices. Productivity apps are truly no different; just because their market is people with non-physical disabilities, they are still part of that category. Which pitch would sell better to investors: an app that helps people who struggle with disorders and disabilities that affect executive functioning and organizational skills perform at a level that is considered average, or an app that helps people with organization and productivity? Though both pitches describe the same app, one portrays it in a way that paints it as niche and adds the stigma of disorders/disabilities, while the other paints it as something that everyone can use to be more productive. Yes, there is a new obsession with productivity, but it’s important to realize that a large part of the “new” obsession with productivity is people who have struggled and are finally being given more easily accessible ways to perform at a higher capacity.
